This repository includes static files for an interactive 3D Keplerian model of the solar system.  The model depicts the positions and Keplerian orbits of the bodies at the J2000 epoch.

Included in the `solar_system_orbits_utils.js` file is an ellipse optimization algorithm I devised that takes an ellipse approximated with discrete line segments and moves its vertices to minimize total segment midpoint distances from the mathematically ideal ellipse.  This algorithm or one similar was necessary to create the smoothest possible looking ellipse with the least vertices in order to minimize memory usage for the dozens of (sometimes highly eccentric) ellipses depicted in the model.  A basic explanation of how it works is that it iteratively moves vertices to areas of smaller radius of curvature on the ellipse until the differences in the deviations of the segments' midpoints from the ideal ellipse are below a threshold value.  In other words, it is attempting to equalize the distances of the segment midpoints from the ideal ellipse curve.  The algorithm is by no means optimized itself, but it does a good job reducing memory usage and works quickly enough for a reasonable number of vertices for this simple model.

The repository contains only scripts and CSS files and has no textures or model information.  The project itself can be seen on my website at https://ryanludwigshaffer.com/projects/solar-system-orbits.  The project includes no body, ring, atmosphere, etc... textures or shaders other than a default body texture showing polar orientation.  I have another project showcasing fairly realistic depictions of solar system bodies that can be seen at https://ryanludwigshaffer.com/projects/solar-system-bodies-index.
